# Vue Watchers

1. A watcher is a method that watches a data property with the same name.
2. A watcher runs every time the data property value changes.
3. Use a watcher if a certain data property value requires an action.

### The Watcher Concept
Watchers is the fourth configuration option in the Vue instance that we will learn. The first three configuration options we have already looked at are 'data', 'methods' and 'computed'.

As with 'data', 'methods' and 'computed' watchers also has a reserved name in the Vue instance: 'watch'.

``` js
const app = Vue.createApp({
  data() {
    ...
  },
  watch: {
    ...
  },
  computed: {
    ...
  },
  methods: {
    ...
  }
})
```

A watcher monitors a data property with the same name. We never call a watcher method. It is only called automatically when the property value changes. The new property value is always available as an input argument to the watcher method, and so is the old value.

## A Watcher with New and Old Values
In addition to the new property value, the previous property value is also automatically available as an input argument to watcher methods.

### Watchers vs. Methods
Watchers and methods are both written as functions, but there are many differences:

* Methods are called from HTML.
* Methods are often called when an event happens.
* Methods automatically receives the event object as an input.
* We can also send other values we choose as an input to a method.
* Watchers are only called when the watched data property value changes, and this happens automatically.
* Watchers automatically receives the new and old value from the watched property.
* We cannot choose to send any other values with a watcher as an input.
* Watchers vs. Computed Properties
* Watchers and computed properties are both written as functions.

Watchers and computed properties are both called automatically when a dependency change, and never called from HTML.

### Computed properties vs. Watchers:

* Watchers only depend on one property, the property they are set up to watch.
* Computed properties can depend on many properties.
* Computed properties are used like data properties, except they are dynamic.
* Watchers are not referred to from HTML.